---
layout: post
date: 2009-01-15
--- 

1. I watched MERLIN! It only took two days. It's a nice background show for me--pretty boys whom the writers seem actually invested in showing how they're friends, Tony Head chewing scenery, a short British season. 

4. Did you know that I don't like sci-fi/fantasy/comics? I know this must seem odd, considering how much of internet fandom is made up of sci-fi/fantasy/comics sources, considering I discovered fandom through THE X-FILES, I first wrote in SMALLVILLE, and have spent the last few years in STARGATE ATLANTIS, but it's really not my favourite. My SGA tag used to be "is this the future?" a Joe Flanigan quote. I was right there with him. There's some great stuff in MERLIN when the camera zooms in to focus on two characters, but pull out too far and it's too much CGI for me. 

5. I don't know. Is CHUCK the closest I get to genuinely enjoying the speculative genre? No, I suppose that would be DOCTOR WHO, but even he roams too far for me sometimes. 

6. My favourite thing to write is stories about groups of artists. I finished making a chapbook today of a story of a band I have had written for a few years now. If there's music involved, I'm in.

7. I'm in love with Google Docs. I've been living online since 2002, yet gdocs has managed to shift my writing paradigm completely. There's always something open in a tab, something I'm poking at. It feeds my short attention span, but in this weird way where I'm actually productive. It's a bit of a job right now, moving every great idea I've ever had out of the box of notebooks and into the relevant gdoc. But it's gonna be great when I can open one file, see all my work, and bash at it until it's done. That's what I'm working towards.

8. 2009 is the year of the bash. I'm calling it. The goal is a zine a month, and there are already 10 gdocs on their way to becoming January through October.

[I'm @JessMakesZines](https://twitter.com/JessMakesZines) // [Subscribe to my fortnightly letter](http://tinyletter.com/jessdriscoll) // [Support my work on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/jessdriscoll) // [And read more zines!](https://jessdriscoll.itch.io/)

<a href="{{page.previous.url}}">previous</a> / <a href="{{page.next.url}}">next</a>
