---
layout: post
date: 2009-02-04
--- 

1. If TANGO & CASH were played by anyone but Sylvester Stallone and Kurt Russell, I could totally get into it. You get partner banter, prison shower scenes, banding together, genderfuck, then Cash dates Tango's sister. It's such an awful movie, which means the fandom could be awesome. If they were played by anyone but Sylvester Stallone and Kurt Russell, of course.

2. And, wow, I had completely forgotten about Kevin Kline playing gay in A FISH CALLED WANDA to fuck with Michael Palin's head. I could read a story where he actually is a psycho assassin who likes boys.

3. I don't know why I'm having such a hard time getting into MERLIN, but I am. I know there are stories being written by writers I like--some of them are even on my flist, and I'm still not reading them. I don't know what I'm waiting for.

4. I've been thinking about these things I love that could be fandoms but aren't, really, and I've almost convinced myself to do Yuletide next year. I did the first one, but not since. I mean, I loved the RULES OF ATTRACTION story I got so much, but I did not like the story I wrote. I'm weird about what I can and cannot write because, honestly, I write for me.

5. Also, my Yuletide fandoms are not fantasy novels from my childhood, historical romances, and comicbooks. I don't read Yuletide like most people, but I like knowing it's there for times when my brain goes, Ooh, I wonder if anyone's written Butch/Etta/Sundance? [ETA: OK, I suppose that actually kinda is a historical romance. But you know what I mean.]

6. Punk was talking about characters's first meetings, and I said, "It still kills me that we never got the canonical first time Josh and Sam met," and I've kinda been thinking about that ever since. It really doesn't matter how many times I read a first meeting, and LOVE how someone's written a first meeting, it's still such a huge hole in their relationship for me.

7. Relatedly, I really wanna know who called Jon Walker to come save Panic.

8. This entry got longer than I expected so I might as well just add how I finally put together the little lisp Jon has with the little lisp Jamie Oliver has. There are definitely things I like.

9. When do we get Doctor Who and Torchwood back? This "Spring 2009" crap is not on.
