---
layout: post
date: 2009-02-22
--- 

I like this word association meme a lot. Here are five things each from Erica and Sandy, except they both picked THE WEST WING, so it's really only nine.

1. Vancouver

The truth is that I don't and have never lived in Vancouver. I live across the river. Because no one can afford to live in Vancouver. Things I love about Vancouver are the water, the trees, the neighbourhoods that bleed into one another, the places to see great music, the Skytrain, and that mostly people just leave you alone and let you have your space. We have an unfriendly reputation, I understand, but we're still a city where you bump into me crossing the street and we both say, Sorry. Vancouver does look like Vancouver, and Danny Tripp doesn't know what he's talking about. I can spot my city from a hundred paces, but I've never seen a celebrity on Robson Street. My very favourite weather is biting cold, so I have to wear three layers and my scarf, but the sky is blue and the sun is shining. We get a lot of days like that here.

2. Indie rock boys

Oh, that's the dream. I love music a lot, probably more than TV, movies, maybe even books. But I can't play, and I don't really want to be a critic. As fraught as it may be, I'd like the be the one the indie rock boy comes home, too. You know, so we could be together, but we wouldn't have to be together all the time. While I'm dreaming, he could look a little like [this boy.](http://www.thesartorialist.com/photos/on-the-street-sixth-ave-nyc-6/) So, if you know any skinny boys with shaggy haircuts, glasses, cameras, sneakers, ink-stained fingers, who maybe know how to play guitar or piano. He doesn't have to be the lead singer.

3. THE WEST WING

I watched THE WEST WING from the very beginning to the very end. There aren't a lot of shows I can say that about, not ones that weren't prematurely cancelled, at least. About year five, I was wishing it would end, then, by the actual end, I wanted one more season. I'd put it in my top three of all-time, though, keep in mind, I still haven't seen all of THE WIRE. Sam Seaborn, firmly in my top three of all-time fictional characters. Everything I ever write ever will be a little bit trying to impress Sam.

4. glasses

Sixth grade, I got glasses. Classic story of back of the room, couldn't see the board. I don't remember if I liked them right away, but I never hated them. No one else in my family wears glasses, so it kind of felt like the thing that made me unique. I think I loved boys in glasses before I had glasses. Simon was my favourite Chipmunk. I don't have contacts. I'm very used to my face with glasses.

5. concert ticket stubs

I don't keep all my ticket stubs anymore only because I scan them, then recycle. So I still have them all, they're just on flickr now. I get very annoyed when the club takes my ticket outright, but with the new barcode scanners, that doesn't happen as often as it used to. I would rather have my ticket stub than a t-shirt or any other merch, really. I just love ephemera in general, the pieces of paper that come in and out of our lives, proof that we were there.

6. brilliant canadian musicians

Canadian musicians ARE brilliant! Right now, Canada's pretty much the only indie scene I'm keeping up with. We may not have much of a TV/film industry to call our own, but I'd line up any one of our bands against yours. That's where we're vikings. Current loves are Malajube, Luke Doucet, Wolf Parade, that Feist song she sings with the guy from Kings of Convenience, and rediscovering my 15yo crush on Matt Good. Contrary to what the first three years of the Polaris Prize may have told you, we have more than dreamy atmospheric boys with violins and falsetto. I mean, I love them, but Canadians also know how to rock.

7. clark kent

The thing is that I always loved Clark more than Superman. I've always liked the secret identities more than the superheroes (does this have anything to do with how much I loved MY SECRET IDENTITY when I was a kid?). My Clark is Tom Welling, which is an added bonus because he's exactly my type. It was when SMALLVILLE started to become too much Superman that I had to quit it. But he's got glasses and suits and sometimes hats, then, occasionally, he's a rock star.

8. icons

I've never paid for LJ. It does exactly what I want it to do for free. With the basic account (and I don't know if people realise this, but you can still get a basic account. Just sign up for plus, then downgrade it in the account menu. Comms, too), I get six icons. Right now that's five Panic, one Redford. I miss my Redfords sometimes. He was such a good all-purpose icon, in life and on LJ. I use the plug-in that randomises your icon and I'm always forgetting what keywords go with what icon (lyrics from a Sufjan Stevens's song, I think, except for one Dylan), so every comment and entry is a surprise. 

9. quiet

I really really love the quiet. When I go out, I'm not without my iPod, but when I'm home alone, I often forget to turn music on. Also, I've discovered recently, I can't write to music anymore. It has to be quiet. I think a lot about what I want to say before I say it. It's not about being sure, I think, but about wanting the quiet to last as long as possible.
