---
layout: post
title: Vision Quest
tags: zine
date: 2019-07-19
---

Vision Quest doesn’t seem to have a website, and the only page linked to the creator, [Tim Goodyear](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Goodyear), is on MySpace. That’s how underground this comics newspaper is. But if you search, you’ll find [blog posts](https://universaldork.com/2016/05/31/vision-quest-portlands-finest-free-comix/) praising it.

I remembering picking up a copy as I walked around Portland during XOXO last year. I don’t draw comics, though I do draw. It didn’t seem like something to which I could submit my work until I shared my table with Kevin Uehlein at Euzine. There were stacks of back issues at the front table, and as we paged through one, he said, Send your stuff. And I didn’t say no right away.

For a moment in my high school years, I considered studying journalism. But I didn’t want to be a reporter; I just really wanted to make a newspaper. I wanted to print books on that paper. And I loved reading the funnies. Not superhero comics, but Archie, Garfield, Calvin and Hobbes. But I could never get my drawing to match the same level of my writing. 

The size of Vision Quest is intimidating. Each artist gets a full newspaper page to fill. Some go for a single panel; some stick to a classic comic strip, writ large. Reading Vision Quest feels like what I wanted college to be. A bunch of people, with different ideas and different styles, but all eager to make a thing. I struggled to find my people, but Tim Goodyear found his, and he made an amazing thing.
