---
layout: post
date: 2014-09-17
---

verily  
adverb: In truth, indeed, truly, certainly.

Verily, I say, it is a good time to start writing. That's always the hardest part, isn't it? Just start moving your fingers across the keyboard and hope that whatever falls out makes sense. Even if it doesn't, you made words. Congratulate yourself. Say a little hip-hip-hooray, even if there's no one else to hear it. Because I know well that the little things count. Even taking five minutes and writing is an achievement some days. Then do another five minutes. String enough of those sessions together, and by the end of the day, you'll have built something all your own. It might not be fit for public consumption. It might have to sit in a drawer for a few months before you know what it is. But it's something. In truth, indeed, truly, certainly something. 

Let's do it again tomorrow. And the next day. Next month, let's do it every day. Next year, let's do more of it. And then we'll be ready to call ourselves writers, artists, makers. At the most basic level, that's what all artists are. Whether we work with words or clay, we make things. You make sculptures; I make sentences. Both tell the stories of people. Both can be stared at and misconstrued. Both can be placed in galleries or hidden away in back rooms. But when we find the courage to put them out with the good china for all the world to see, our art becomes something new. Something bigger. Something we couldn't imagine because we can't live outside of it. It is one thing in our hands, but in the hands of the world, something else all together.
