---
layout: post
date: 2014-09-19
---

This is the ramp-up to writing something. Wow, this table is so uncomfortable. Maybe I need to write in my lap. It is a laptop after all. Maybe I need to start on paper and pen. But if I move farther onto the table, then it feels better. Okay. This is what the ramp up is all about. It's about finding the rhythm that's going to fuel my writing day. It's noon. I've started. I'm going to do at least four of these, and then take a longer break to read. I'm going to read during my two minutes. I'm going to write this scene that needs to happen. Can I write 500 words and make it complete? That's what I need to finish this thousand word section. I did it yesterday. Which means I can do it again today. 

Isn't it amazing how we forget from day to day what we're capable of. It's amazing to me how this works with writers especially. Every day, it's like we're starting from brand new. From where we were in elementary school, still trying to figure out how to hold the pen. The other thing I need to write today is my word-a-day essay. I've already forgotten the word, though I copied and pasted it. "Mayhap." That's what it was. But I'm not writing about that right now. 

So what I need to do is take a longer time and read through this section, adding in the new words where they fit, deleting the rambling thoughts, and then see where we are. Maybe the story will already be 5k by the time I'm done sorting everything out. But I'm still going to write for this five minutes because that's what I do when the timer is running down. I'm building this habit, and I'm hoping I'm not growing immune to the effects. It's working so well for me, it's almost too good to be true. I'm hoping this will be a habit and not just another technique that stopped working when I started thinking too much. 

The goal is just to get to the end of the numbers. It doesn't matter how many words I write. This is what I'm teaching myself. Time is more important that word count. Consistency is more important than habit. All though they both sound like the same thing. It doesn't help to do this a hundred times a day and then never again. It's better to write 5 times a day and do it every day. Which is why I'm not looking at those stats until the end of the day. I don't care how many times I've worked a five minute block. Right now, it doesn't matter. (Thankfully humans can't look at that line of dots and immediately know how many there are. There are too many now for my brain to process.)

That's a good first thousand words, and I'm almost ready to bring in the stuff I just deleted, too. Sometimes I think it's better to scrap it all and start from scratch. But at the same time, these are good words. And it's not a murder your darlings thing. These words haven't even been given a chance. I need to give them this chance to be something. To turn into something. That's what I'm trying to do now. So. If this story wants to be a little longer, I'll let it be a little longer. That's okay. If it wants to be 10, then I know what I can do with that. 

I don't need to be afraid of ideas that get too big because I can always make them into their own thing. This is only a short story because it was less than 2k. But if it grows, it grows. 
