---
layout: post
date: 2014-09-24
---

Getting back into the groove always means doing a bit of ramp up writing. Like this. I'm in the doc, but I'm not writing words to be published yet. I'm writing about writing, which is the easiest thing in the world to do. I can do this all day. I've bumped up my Pomos to 10 minutes (with a four minute break, so everything times two), so this rambling is going to go on long enough to get me to where I'm actually writing words, I think. The main thing I want to ramble about is the outline for the rest of this story. It's a standalone again, and right now it's 2k, and barely begun. So I know I can get a lot more out of it. Can I get 10k? That's the goal. Let's see. 

I want to go back and read what I've already written, but I know that's folly. Which is why I'm starting here, in the notes file, just doing some thinking out loud before I dive back into the story. I'm coming to the end. That's why I want to go back. Because I know there's so much that needs to be fixed. I know there are a lot of inconsistencies, and changes to be made, and names to be generated. I want to fix it before I finish it, but that's not how writing works. You have to push to the end, then fix it all together, in post. 

I started this story from one place and now it's ended up somewhere else. This is hard for my brain to reconcile, and it's the biggest lesson I'm teaching myself in these last months of the year. I am going to be a writer who writes four thousand words a day. Maybe not every day. I will give myself some leeway for the weekends, but I still need to write. But four thousand words, every week day. I can do that. I know I can do that. But how long can I do that is the question? The answer is what I'm working towards. 

This is my plan (because I love making plans for myself.) At the moment, focus on getting as many stories out to Amazon as possible (I'm also going to put them up on Gumroad because I want everyone to be able to read them, not just Kindle readers.) But focus on writing as much as possible. Make beautiful covers. Write a variety of genres and pairings. Just write. As more and more people read it, they'll find more and more (I hope?). Just having something to link to every week or so and say, hey, I wrote another story. Look at that! And it's a boost for me, too, to be able to make that kind of output. I have a handful of stories that are so close to done, I'm just working on those until they are. 

Then I'm going to think about the serial. I still want to do it, but I have to make sure that I can. Ideally, I almost want to have one or two written before I put the first out there. Anyway! I've got my fingers moving. I should be able to do this, right? 
