---
layout: post
title: "Farm"
date: 2017-05-31
---

Something making me happy right now is the BBC historical farm series. Starting with <a href="https://youtu.be/iSpqpwJ__Ek">Tales From The Green Valley</a> (or Tudor Farm) in 2005, Ruth Goodman, Peter Ginn, and Alex Langlands have been working and living together in the past. They made <a href="https://youtu.be/4apIM4l0laY">Victorian Farm</a> in 2007, then <a href="https://youtu.be/UcBl4_2FJX4">Edwardian Farm</a>, and <a href="https://youtu.be/CUsU5s0ofYo">Wartime Farm</a>. After ten years, it's understandably harder to commit to a whole year on a farm, so their last series was a more classic history documentary <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N5cqWZZUioQ">about the British railroad</a>. There are related series to be found, but these five are the five with Ruth, Peter, and Alex, and those three together are why I keep watching.

As I watch the series again, in order from the beginning (I'm in the middle of Edwardian Farm right now), I'm thinking a lot about why they make me so happy. The chemistry between the three presenters is so good. In the Tudor Farm series, Peter was only brought in last minute. Alex was chosen as the young farm hand to do labour, but injured himself before filming began. He brought in his university friend, Peter, to help out. Because it's the first series, it's very different: five historians and only 30 minute episodes. But you can see the core of the show forming.

Ruth is older than the other two, and she's a historian, while Peter and Alex are both archaeologists. She's in charge of the house; they're in charge of the farm. Alex's first words in Tudor Farm are how he's always wanted to be a farmer. By the time they get to WWII in Wartime Farm, the roles are set. Alex is the gentleman farmer, Peter is the blue collar farm hand, and Ruth is the keeper of the house. It might sound like a patriarchal system, but the lack of a marriage means a different dynamic. Yes, the woman does the cooking and cleaning, but Ruth's enthusiasm for domestic chores makes clear how much this is her choice. Alex brings his own chickens from home to their Edwardian farm, and Peter is never happier than when he's covered in dirt. The three of them are just so happy to be together on the farm, no matter the time period.

If nothing else, at least I'll know what to do to survive when our civilisation collapses.
