---
layout: post
title: "Four Things #2"
date: 2017-04-21
---

1. On the shelf next to my PVR sits a pewter bud vase. It spent most of its life sitting on my mom's bookcase, and I don't ever remember it holding a flower. It's very mid-century Scandinavian, maybe a little Bauhaus, though if I had to guess, it probably came from my granddad's frequent trips to Asia. We accidentally inherited a lot of stuff when my grandparents divorced. They moved out of the house, and we moved in. I've been picking a new flower from the park each week, a little bit of spring to look at instead of the TV. Today, my pewter vase holds a [millennial pink](http://nymag.com/thecut/2017/03/why-millennial-pink-refuses-to-go-away.html) tulip which has opened up and turned south to the sun.

2. I started anxiety management group therapy this week. Group is two things for me: a reason (other than work) to get out of the house and people to hold me accountable. We set an action plan each week, then report how we did. This week, my goal is not turning on the TV first thing in the morning. It's so easy to waste the morning doing absolutely nothing. Even though I've reached for the remote more than once, I've stopped myself each time. Because I know I'll have to tell the group that I failed. So far, I haven't.

3. I have a small apartment, so I have a small vacuum. It fits under my bathroom sink. But because it fits under my bathroom sink, I don't think about it often enough to vacuum regularly. On Monday, I dragged it out and put it in the middle of my living room, right in front of the door. By Wednesday, I had done the vacuuming. Today, I'll probably put it back. That'll be a success.

4. From the time I was 11 until I was 30, I never had menstrual cramps. Ever. I never had mood swings. I forgave the wildly unpredictable cycles because I thought I got the better deal. Except now my cycle is wildly unpredictable AND I get cramps so bad that they often make me puke. A few months ago, I finally started taking painkillers (I also hate swallowing pills). I bought generic naproxen because it was on sale at the grocery store, and it's the greatest thing ever. Avoiding stuff you don't like is so not worth it if you're in pain. Sometimes you have to do the hard thing because it's on the way to the good thing. Sometimes the good thing is just being able to sleep through the night.
