---
layout: post
title: "Four Things #6"
date: 2017-05-19
---

1. I've had Wednesdays off the last few weeks because I've had no classes to teach. Of course it would be better to work and get paid, but right now, I'm just going to enjoy my mid-week break. This week, I spent the evening with my 1-year-old nephew while his parents had a night out. Turns out babysitting pays as well as my day job.

2. I finished reading A DAY OF SIGNS AND WONDERS by Kit Pearson, a novel inspired by Emily Carr's childhood. It was fine, a quick read, definitely more for kids. The paperback is designed with cover flaps, which do an excellent job as built-in bookmarks. I am vehemently against dogearing a book, especially borrowed from the library.

3. I spent a lot of time this week working on my websites. Nothing I'm ready to share yet, but I always enjoy playing with code. I taught myself in the early '00s by finding sites I liked and viewing source. Luckily, my taste is pretty simple, so I can usually make it look the way I want with good old fashioned HTML and CSS.

4. After I used my last Starbucks reward, I deleted the app from my phone. They make it too easy to spend money. So I've been making coffee in the morning with a plastic pourover cone I stole from my parents's basement. God knows how old it is, but it works great. It fits on the rim of a litre canning jar. It makes as much or as little coffee as I want. (Admittedly, lately, it's been a lot.) The inadvertent theme of this week is simple and old fashioned. Might just make it the deliberate theme going forward.
