---
layout: post
title: "Four Things #7"
date: 2017-05-28
---

1. Weekends. Dude, they're the best.

2. A whole week off.  I went on a weekend vacation last week--Vancouver to Seattle on a cruise ship, then Seattle to Vancouver on a train. Because I knew I wouldn't have internet, I decided not to worry. Then I came home and decided to keep not worrying for the rest of the week. Just take a few days off from making stuff. It was nice.

3. What I ended up doing instead was a lot of thinking about what I want this website to look like. It was last May that I stopped making a zine a week. I liked doing it. I'm proud I did it. But in the end, it wasn't working for me. I've been experimenting these last few months to figure out what's going to work for me now. Even if it's not what I'm doing now, none of this has been wasted. I have to do the thing to figure out if I want to do the thing.

4. Last Sunday was the first time I'd travelled to the US since the election in November. Washington is literally right there across the bay, but the last time I walked around Blaine, I saw a man run across the street with a rifle.  And that was before the election. I wasn't scared about being in Seattle. I was worried about being in this city I know well and finding it changed. I was worried that I would find a different America than the one I know from my friends, from my travels, from living in a border city. I was so happy to find that Seattle is well. Seattle is fighting. I took so many photos of the words RESIST, PERSIST, DEFY in shopfront windows: appliquéd on calico banners or written on cardboard in black Sharpie. It felt good to be there, instead of watching on the internet from afar. It helped me to know that we're going to be OK.
