---
layout: post
date: 2014-08-25
---

I’m so happy I can finally share the cover of my new book! AWAY GAME comes out one month from today, in celebration of [HOME TEAM](http://www.dreamspinnerpress.com/store/product_info.php?products_id=4211)’s book birthday. Pre-orders are open, so please, tell all your friends and everyone else you know, and tell them to buy it!

Set a month or so after the end of [HOME TEAM](http://www.dreamspinnerpress.com/store/product_info.php?products_id=4211) (published 2013 by Dreamspinner Press), AWAY GAME continues the story of Zach, a sports writer, and Aaron, a professional hockey player. The Monarchs have made the playoffs, which means Zach is going on the road with the team. While they’re away, Zach runs into an ex-boyfriend, receives a job offer, and watches Aaron play to stay alive. Back home, they’re still avoiding the conversation about their future. Zach knows he wants to be with Aaron, but he doesn’t know if Aaron wants to come out. That’s what broke them up the first time, and it’s what threatens their relationship still.

AWAY GAME is a 48k word contemporary romance. Your download includes an ePUB, MOBI, PDF, and HTML version of the book, including extra short stories set in the world.

If you don’t want to miss a moment, signup for the newsletter. In the weeks leading up to launch day, I’ll be sharing excerpts and extras (in fact, I already did), as well as behind-the-scenes thoughts and answering any questions you guys have.

You asked for a sequel, and here it is. Thank you for helping to make this happen. I can’t wait for you to read it.
