---
layout: post
date: 2014-08-07
---

Some writers love blogging. I think, perhaps, a lot more don't. When I need a break from writing, I don't sit down and think, YES, I will write a blog post. When I need a break, I take a walk, I play Subway Surfers on my phone, I draw with paper and pen. I need to do something completely different, and therefore, blogging falls further down the list.

This was my thinking when I started the newsletter a few months ago. I want to keep you guys in the loop (I don't want you to miss my next book either!), but writing once a week here? Not going to happen. Sometimes I have bad writing weeks, and I don't want to talk about it. The newsletter is a quick rundown of the month, what I'm thinking about, what I'm working on, what's coming up. Bullet points and pictures. (You should sign up!)

But then I have actual news, and I forget to announce it here. :( 

I sold another book! A TERRIBLE HUSBAND will be out early next year from <a href="http://www.dreamspinnerpress.com">Dreamspinner</a> again. (I really love working with them. Fantastic experience. A+. Would recommend.) TERRIBLE HUSBAND started out as a 10k submission for an anthology and turned into my longest (to-be-)published book yet. It's the story of a tenth anniversary trip to Ibiza and eating prawns on the beach. Kind of.

While you're waiting for next year to come, I have another book nearing release. I'll be publishing AWAY GAME this September to celebrate the book birthday of its prequel, [HOME TEAM.](http://www.dreamspinnerpress.com/store/product_info.php?products_id=4211) I hadn't planned to write a sequel, but you asked, I thought about it, and it turned out there was another story I wanted to tell. AWAY GAME will be published independently.

I've always made books, alongside writing them, and the tools and technology these days are great. I don't believe that every writer needs to be a publisher (like I don't believe that every writer needs to be an editor, but it helps). But the same way it's good if you drive that you learn how to take care of your car, it's good to explore these things. I just get excited about making things, and I want to make more books for you.
