---
layout: post
date: 2014-06-12
---

>Lincoln explained that [James] Speed was "a man I know well, though not so well as I know his brother Joshua. That, however, is not strange, for I slept with Joshua for four years, and I suppose I ought to know him well." Lincoln's ease in referring to his sleeping arrangement with Joshua Speed is further evidence that theirs was not a sexual relationship. Had it been, historian David Donald suggests, the president would not have spoken of it "so freely and publicly. (789).

>While troubled at the start by Lincoln's "never-failing fund of anecdotes," he had come to realize that storytelling played a central role in the president's ability to communicate with the public. "The character of the President's mind is such," Bates remarked, "that his thought habitually takes on this form of illustration, by which the point he wishes to enforce is invariably brought home with a strength and clearness impossible in hours of abstract argument. (787).

>We are as certain of two-thirds of that [soldier] vote for General McClellan as that the sun shines.

Manton Marble, in TEAM OF RIVALS (774), ahead of [the 1864 election](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_presidential_election,_1864), which, if you remember, saw McClellan win 3 states to Lincoln's 24. Smug never wins.

>Chase is, on the whole, a pretty good fellow and a very able man. His only trouble is that he has "the White House fever" a little too bad, but I hope this may cure him and that he will be satisfied.

Lincoln, on nominating Chase as Chief Justice (793). I could tell you how much I hate Salmon P. Chase, but I'll save it for my book.

>If he had been alive he would have been the first to call on me...but he has not been here, nor has he sent to know how I am, and there's the flag at halfmast.

William Seward, recovering after his own assassination attempt, wasn't told of Lincoln's death. He figured it out for himself when he saw through his bedroom window that the flag was flying at half-mast. (866)

I finally finished "the Lincoln book" last night. That's TEAM OF RIVALS by Doris Kearns Goodwin, for anyone who has forgotten along the way. I don't blame you--I started posting quotes in October.
