---
layout: post
title: "Chalk"
date: 2017-07-05
---

It's probably not a surprise that I have a lot of art supplies. I have boxes of paper, notebooks, pencils, markers, tape, canvases, paints. I have scissors, brushes, hole punchers, paperclips, rulers. I have everything that I need to make art, except the motivation. I don't lack ideas. I don't lack talent or skill.

What I have is depression, which likes to tell me that nothing matters. It likes to tell me that nobody cares about what I make, so why bother. It's hard not to listen to that voice when it's been talking to you for your whole life.

Today, I remembered <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wish_Tree_(Yoko_Ono_art_series)">the wish tree</a> I saw in Washington, DC last year. It's an outdoor art installation by Yoko Ono--a tree with wishes written on paper and hanging from string. The wishes are written by the public, so the art grows and changes each time somebody adds their wish.

I knew I had tags in a box, and I knew I had string in a drawer. But as I was looking for those things, I found a box of sidewalk chalk I bought last summer at the dollar store. I wrapped a piece with masking tape to keep my fingers clean, and then I walked to work, earlier than usual.

The first thing I wrote on the road was KEEP GOING. I live halfway between the beach and uptown, and it's a very steep hill to climb. I know how hard it is because I do it every day. Then I drew a heart because that's what you do when you have pink chalk. But as I kept walking, all the words coming to mind sound trite.

All the streets in White Rock have names, and all the streets in Surrey have numbers. As I cross from names to numbers, there's a water fountain on the corner. A week ago, somebody left a piece of paper with three pennies taped to it. They had written, "Make a wish, and have a good day." Judging by the handwriting, it was probably a teenage girl.

That piece of paper is gone now, and I don't know if anybody got their wish. But, inspired by that teenage girl, I wrote, MAKE A WISH, in pink chalk letters around the edge of the water, and then I added a wish of my own: MAKE ART IN PUBLIC.
