---
layout: post
title: "Four Things #9"
date: 2017-06-09
---

1. The French Open is messing with my resolution to keep the TV off in the mornings. But my PVR helps. I only have a few shows set to record (<a href="https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Private_Eyes_(TV_series)">Private Eyes</a> is back!), but it means I'm not compulsively flipping the channels, looking for something to watch. I watch a show after work, and then I delete. I watch less TV, but I watch what I want.

2. This Wednesday, I biked out to Crescent Beach. It was my first bike ride of the year. I wasn't sure that the weather would hold for the whole day, and it turned out that it didn't. It was overcast, and later it got windy. But just the chance to spend an afternoon on the beach, in the sun, in the ocean, made my week better.

3. My new steno notebooks are working out pretty well. I filled the first one in two weeks. The thing I like most about them is the two columns. It means that the daily log I write at the back of my book takes up far fewer pages. The thing I like least about them is the paper. It's rather thin and gets caught up on the spiral binding a lot.

4. <a href="https://mobile.twitter.com/cbcasithappens/status/873204512512782337">The inventor of the Hawaiian pizza</a> died today. Hawaiian has always been my favourite pizza. But now that I'm vegetarian, I don't eat ham. On my way home from work, I stopped at the grocery store and bought a can of pineapple tidbits, pizza mozzarella (on sale!), some mushrooms, and a tomato. When I got home, I made some dough. It wasn't exactly the pizza Sam Panopoulos invented. But I made it on a whim, and I have leftovers for tomorrow.
