---
layout: post
title: "Four Things #8"
date: 2017-06-02
---

1. This weekly post is the easiest thing I write every week. As I do more therapy, I'm thinking more about routines and habits. They've often been very hard for me to maintain. But I can see (and feel) the difference, the benefit. Every day, I write down my little achievements in the back of my notebook, but this post is a celebration of the bigger things.

2. One of the hardest habits for me to maintain is a consistent sleep schedule. I used to be an inveterate night owl, but over the last few years, I've managed to curtail staying up past midnight. Getting up early in the morning, though, is still hard. So I bought a cheap battery-powered alarm clock to help. I used to use my phone as my alarm, which has its benefits. The alarms are automatically reset, and you can set multiple times. My new clock only has one alarm, and I have to remember to turn it on before I go to bed. But it means I'm not bringing my phone to bed. I'm not looking at the screen last thing before I sleep and first thing in the morning.

3. I've done something else to discourage me from reaching for my phone. I deleted Safari, Wikipedia, YouTube, iBooks, and all games. Not only does it mean I'm more likely to write in my notebook when I'm out than stare at my phone, but the battery lasts longer during the day.

4. My students got me sick again last week. It's mostly a head cold, but terrible nonetheless. This is the second time I've been sick in a month. This is the risk of working with elementary school students. The cough is proving hardest to get rid of this time around. I hadn't noticed before that Halls has encouraging messages printed on the wrappers. "A pep talk in every drop." (en français: "A pastille qui en a dedans.") Being sick makes being alone so much harder. It's nice to know the brands are rooting for me.
