---
layout: post
title: "Four Things #1"
date: 2017-04-14
---

1. I eat oatmeal for breakfast every morning. No matter the weather. No matter the time. No matter what else I have in my fridge. It's a low key routine, easy to maintain, and I'm learning how much I need that in my life. My base recipe is 1/3 cup quick oats, 1 tbsp chia seeds, 1/2 tsp salt, and enough boiling water to cover. Ideally, let it stand, covered, for two minutes, but I don't always. My current recipe is adding a big spoonful of peanut butter, but as we inch closer to summer, I'm looking forward to adding fresh fruit.

2. I spent a lot of years of my life looking for the perfect pen. I should've spent more time writing and less time worrying. I use a pencil now. Currently, a package of (original) Strawberry Shortcake pencils I found in my Christmas stocking so many years ago that the erasers have dried up. Pencils are cheap. They go well with my preferred notebook: a 9x6 spiral-bound for $1.50.

3. Speaking of stocking stuffers (Santa always kills it), I'm getting to the bottom of a jar of cranberry body butter from The Body Shop. I have a dozen different lotions all over my house, but I keep this one of my end table. It's perfect for hands after washing dishes.

4. I have had a lot of blogs. I've tried everything. I started on Blogspot, spent a lot of time on Livejournal, almost stuck with Tumblr, and now I'm here on my own site, powered by Wordpress. It's exactly what I want right now. I love hand-coding and making my own thing, but using Wordpress means I'm way more likely to actually blog every day. There are no excuses when it's this easy.
