---
layout: post
title: "Four Things #3"
date: 2017-04-28
---

1. The iPhone 5 is the perfect form factor for shooting video. The sides are flat, even with [my new case] (https://society6.com/product/harry-styles-b7h_iphone-case#s6-3005984p20a9v124a52v377), so it doesn't roll when you stand it up on a table. I don't want to buy a bunch of equipment. I just want to make some videos, and this five-year-old phone lets me do that.

2. Last summer was great for the garden in my backyard. It belongs to the family upstairs, but one day when I was leaving for work, the mom and her two daughters were picking vegetables. I said, hoping to influence some young minds, kale is my favourite vegetable. (Top three, at least.) The mom told me to pick whatever I wanted because it was way too much for them to eat. Nothing new has been planted yet for this summer, but the kale survived the winter. It's grown two feet in the last month, and there is way too much for me to eat. But I'm enjoying the trying.

3. The best chemistry on The Newsroom is between Dev Patel and John Gallagher Jr., so of course Sorkin ignores it for a whole host of romantic relationships repurposed from his other shows. I don't know why I even started watching this (after avoiding it five years ago because I knew it would make me sad and angry), but these two are a bright spot that keeps me going.

4. I just realised I have a copy of Magic Mike XXL on my external hard drive, so that's what I'm going to do tonight. You might think it was a bad movie. ["No, as I have said twice before, and will now say a third time, it was the best movie of 2015. Please do not make me go over this again."] (http://brightwalldarkroom.tumblr.com/post/134867493227/faq-about-the-best-movie-of-2015-by-fran)
