---
layout: post
date: 2018-11-22
---

Still thinking about this monthly magazine I want to make. The end of the month is coming up quickly, and I’d like to do something for November. I didn’t do a writing project for NaNoWriMo this year, so getting something out—no matter how small—would be good. 

The question I can’t answer is why is this different than a blog. For my whole adult life, since my first Blogspot blog I started in 2002, this is how I’ve written. I am a master of the paragraph. I’ve taught myself to distill my big ideas into a few hundred words. 

But also, I give it all away. I write for the internet, and in the early days, that meant writing for free. As others have struggled to make money, I kept doing this. My best words, they’re all out there for you to read. And I’ve read so much from others without paying, too. So I write for them in exchange. 

Fan fiction is great because it gives us the chance to see what we don’t on screen. But it’s also the best place for experimentation. Just this morning, I found a 90k original novel hiding in a TEEN WOLF alternate universe fic. In those moments, I want to shake the writer and yell, “Send this to an agent! Get that book deal!”

But we do this for free because we have always done this for free. I claim I’m not a novelist, but I’ve written more than a million words for the internet. Some are in these tiny chunks called blog posts. Some are novels hiding as fan fiction. They’re out there, and you can have them for free. 

The promise of the internet was bold your audience; the money will come. Perhaps I waited too long to figure out that second part. 
