---
layout: post
date: 2015-10-23
---

Toad-in-the-hole

Toad is one of my favourite childhood meals, an English classic that's even better than Yorkshire pudding, because it's one big Yorkshire stuffed with sausages. I haven't yet made it since I started eating vegan, but I have some ideas for how to make it work. The liquid from a can of chickpeas whips up into a white meringue, exactly like egg whites, and I suspect it can be used here to substitute the eggs. The milk can be any non-dairy milk, though I wouldn't suggest coconut. My mom always makes the batter in the blender, but a whisk works, too.

1 package (fake) sausages
2 to 3 tbsp vegetable oil

Heat oven to 425. Bake the sausages and oil in a large baking dish until sausages are cooked. 

Batter

1 cup flour
1 tsp salt
3 eggs (or 1/2 cup chickpea liquid)
1 cup milk

Blend batter until smooth. It will be thinner than pancake batter and should not be lumpy. Open the oven and pull out the rack. Pour the batter over the sausages and oil, then close the oven as quickly as possible. Bake 30 minutes, until the batter has puffed and looks golden. Resist the urge to open the oven door until it is done. Cut into squares and serve with ketchup and sautéed peas.

Calzone

Instead of paying extra for the "stuffed" pizza from your delivery place, just fold your homemade pizza in half to make a calzone. Pizza dough is one of the easiest breads to make because it really doesn't matter if it rises long enough.

1 cup warm tap water (not hot)
1 tbsp honey
1 tsp yeast
2 tbsp olive oil
1 tsp salt
about 3 cups flour

I like 00 flour, aka pizza flour, but any white flour is fine. Substitute half a cup of whole wheat or semolina to add flavour and texture.

Mix water, honey, yeast in a bowl. A stand mixer with a dough hook is perfect, but not necessary. Let the yeast bloom for a few minutes, until the water is cloudy and bubbles form around the edge. Add the rest of the ingredients, then mix until the dough forms into a ball and pulls away from the bowl. Add more flour if it looks too sticky. Knead the dough for about ten minutes. Cover with a clean towel and let stand until you're ready to make pizza.

Portion into fist-sized balls, then roll out into circles. Fill with whatever you like: tomato sauce, pesto, mushrooms, pineapple, and anything else that will fit. Brush the edge of the dough with a wet finger, fold, then crimp the edge by rolling it back on itself. Brush the top with oil, sprinkle with coarse salt and pepper, and cut a slit to let the air escape. Bake as hot as your oven will go until the crust is golden and the filling is bubbling.

Stuffed Squash

Acorn squash can be annoying to peel, so this is the perfect way to cook them. It's like an edible bowl for whatever filling you love.

1 squash
1 cup cooked grain of your choice
chopped vegetables
oil, salt, pepper
nuts and herbs, for garnish

Split the squash in half and clean out the insides. Score with a knife. Season with oil, salt, pepper. In a separate bowl, mix cooked grains with finely chopped vegetables. Quinoa would taste great with sautéed red onion, mushrooms, and kale. Couscous goes well with peppers, zucchini, and mint. Mix brown rice with tomatoes, corn, and chili. Squash is a plain vehicle for your favourite flavours. Fill the cavity. Place in a baking dish with an inch of water. Cover with foil and bake at 350. Once the squash is tender--about 30 minutes, test with the tip of a knife--remove foil and continue baking until browned. Eat straight from the skin.

Jam Muffins

Take a basic muffin recipe (this one is adapted from Martha Stewart) and add whatever open jar of jam you have in the fridge to make these stuffed muffins. Though I don't often bother with paper liners, you might want to with these muffins. The jam can make a sticky mess to clean up, but it tastes so good!

1 1/2 cups flour
1 cup oats
2 1/4 tsp baking powder
1 tsp salt
2 eggs (or 6 tbsp chickpea liquid)
1/4 cup oil
1/2 cup milk
about a cup of jam

Mix the wet and dry ingredients separately, then combine. Don't overmix! Stir just until it comes together. Put a generous spoonful of batter in the bottom of each cup. Then add a generous spoonful of jam. Top with the rest of the batter, filling each cup just below the rim. Bake at 350 for about 25 minutes, checking the tops for firmness. (A toothpick will NOT come out clean here.) Let cool before you eat with a glass of milk or a cup of tea.

[Download the zine.](http://jessdriscoll.com/files/stuffed.pdf)
