---
layout: post
date: 2021-03-12
---

[CONGENIAL TELEGRAM NUMBER08](https://jessdriscoll.itch.io/congenial-telegram).

For much of February, the cover of CT07 was exactly the cover of CT08. I was thinking about how I need to pause, how I need a break from this zine and its monthly schedule. And then I felt guilty about needing a break, even as we approach the one year anniversary of the pandemic. 

That’s what capitalism will do to you. It’ll make you feel like crap, then make you feel worse for wanting a change. 

I only restarted CT in November. How dare I pause again after pausing for most of last year? 

I made 3 issues in 2019. I made 2 more in 2020—right at the tail end of an awful year. This is number 3 in 2021. This is number 8 in the series. 

It’s an even number; that’s nice. And it’s perhaps the best-looking number: round, with the almost symmetry of a slant rhyme. I had been thinking I’d gather them in a single document with Number 10, but Number 08 is a decent collection, too. 

If I’ve been thinking about these publishing milestones for this long, I know a pause is the right decision. 

A lot of my writing, not just in CT, but on my blog, through my newsletter, in my other zines, is about the power of habits, patterns. A lot of what I bemoan is schedules, routines, discipline. Because I know how much trouble I have with deadlines, this project was another experiment in setting myself a deadline. 

All of those reasons are why I created this zine, and all of them are I’m hitting pause. 

I need to direct my writing energy elsewhere. I want to write something else. 

At the end of 2020, I gave myself a long break from life. The market ended in October. I spent the last two weeks of the year at my parents’s house, where I don’t have to do the dishes, cook the meals, even fold my laundry if I don’t want to. 

I expected I’d take the holidays, to review and reset, then get back to my habits in January. But 2021 hasn’t been much of a change from 2020. Actually, it’s felt worse. 

Today, March 12, 2020, was the last day I felt free before quarantine was announced. 

If everything has changed—and if change is what I want—why did I come back to this zine in the first place? 

Because I wanted to prove I could continue, instead of quitting. Because I wanted to remember what routine feels like. Because I wanted the comfort of the old instead of something brand new. 

All of those reasons were true when I returned to this zine in 2020. But they don’t feel true anymore in 2021. This zine doesn’t have a place in my life anymore. 

The world has to change after a year like 2020. There will, of course, be those who resist, and we’re hearing their protests already. “Normal” demands a new definition in 2021. 

My normal is less. My normal is fewer. My normal is subtraction. 

After a year surrounded by everything I own, I’m tired of looking at clutter. I’m tired of juggling lists of what to do. My job will have to stay. I will have to continue doing dishes and laundry. 

But I’m ready to let the rest go. 

PAUSE! 

Working alone, there’s no one to tell us to stop. Take a break. Go for a walk. 

I’m not a workaholic, I exclaim to my friends who have more professional, more structured jobs than mine. I love that I get to leave my work at the office. 

I’m not a workaholic, I exclaim as I strive nonstop for my independence. Maybe this zine will be the one. Or maybe I’ll take a walk by the beach. 

//

[I'm @JessMakesZines on Twitter](https://twitter.com/JessMakesZines) // [You can subscribe to my fortnightly letter](http://tinyletter.com/jessdriscoll) // [Support me on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/jessdriscoll) // [And read more zines!](https://jessdriscoll.itch.io/)

<a href="{{page.previous.url}}">previous</a> / <a href="{{page.next.url}}">next</a>
