---
layout: post
date: 2013-05-01
---

i missed the deadline for the other sports call, but that's ok because i can hit the other one later. so now i'm working on the shakespeare story again. i made the mistake of looking at amazon to see if anyone had rated or reviewed my book, and they had, and they didn't like it. i'm ok with that, but it still sucks, and it still makes my stomach feel tight and queasy, and now i'm even more worried about the next thing coming out, and the next thing i'm writing. so i need to work on plot. it's my biggest problem, and arguably, the biggest part of a book. usually, i write everything with characters at the core, but i'm working my way up. if i want to write a novel, i need to get better at plot. 

i'm trying to write the shakespeare thing, and my idea was much ado about nothing. so i need to write people who hate each other. that's really hard for me. i don't like to see people who hate each other in the world. that's not what i write for. i have two guys: one is playing benedick and the other is playing beatrice, though the beatrice is going to need another name. or maybe not. maybe a drag queen. maybe that's part of the bit. it's about queering the bard, and not just making the male character female or the female character male. what if this is a drag revue or show? something like hedwig and the angry inch? what if the beatrice is the star, and she's auditioning for a benedick. i like the idea, but i really don't know if i can write it. that feels outside my experience a little too far. 
