---
layout: post
date: 2010-05-25
---

Funny, the last time I posted was after watching one of the best Luke/Reid episodes. Today was one of the worst. The inconsistency is what kills me about soap operas. There’s not a whole lot of planning, I understand. They don’t even have much time for rehearsals when things are written. But you would think, with the show cancelled and ending in September, with months they’ve known this, they would lock down how it’s going to end and how they’re going to get there. I really believed they were headed towards a Luke/Reid ending. It would have been amazing, not only because it’s a pairing that sparks, because the actors have fantastic chemistry, but because it actually reflects a real change for Luke’s character. It’s his story, after all. Sure, Noah’s been around for a few years, but what do we really know about him outside of being Luke’s boyfriend. This story has to be about Luke growing up. And what better way to do that than to see him put his first love behind him, and move on to a grown up relationship. But this back-and-forth crap they’re pulling, it makes me think Reid will only be yet another obstacle to Luke/Noah.

I don’t want to care this much. In fact, I couldn’t even watch the whole episodes. It’s not like watching a real television show. I’m not just talking about daytime versus primetime. But there’s not enough there to get stuck in with the characters. What does the screentime add up to, I wonder? A handful of hours in six months? Little bits of time isn’t what television is about. It’s about long stretches of living with characters.

That’s what GENERATION KILL does so well. It feels claustrophobic. You get to know these guys because there’s nowhere for anyone to hide.

Old Fashioned Men needs that sense of urgency. I want to set the whole thing in the theatre, to get the bottle feel, but I need that time crunch, too.
