---
layout: post
date: 2010-11-16
--- 

(This post was originally written on 750words.com. It has been edited.)

Some days I'm tempted to write blah blah blah for 750 words. It's not exactly cheating, but it's easier than this. I keep leaving it to the last minute. I just don't want to deal with it some days. But then I look at my streak, and I don't want to break it. I don't have a perfect November, but maybe this will be the month that I at least write something on every day. Even if I don't make the word count. I don't remember exactly why I didn't make the word count on the two days I'm missing. I know one of them, probably the first one, was because I was trying to do actual writing. That doesn't work for me for 750 words. It got too late before I started rambling just to make word count. I learned my lesson and started writing my rambly journal type posts again. Now I'm just barely 200 words in, and already I don't have much to say. I have to go to work tomorrow, which sucks, but 1-9, which is better. Actually, I kind of like 8-4, too, but that's not a real shift. We don't work 8-4, and it makes even less sense for me to work 8-4, because the customers don't show up until 930. But then I have Thursday off. Lots and lots of writing I plan to do. I need to catch up to something. If I'm not going to catch up to Nano, I need to catch up to 30k. That's my new, adjusted goal. If I can write 30k this month, then 30k next month, I can still meet my goal of a novel by the end of the year. I'm at 13k, almost 14. I'm gonna get to 15 by Thursday. Then just keep plugging along. I need to get to the plot part of this story. I've pushed ahead to some other stuff, but now it's time to find the throughline. 
