---
layout: post
date: 2022-06-23
---

I don’t go to work on Wednesdays anymore. This is the kind of thing that happens when you're a teacher. Kids go on vacation; you teach fewer hours. But financially I’m OK right now. I’m still living off that Covid money the government gave us back in 2020. And because I’m OK financially, it frees me up a little bit to do something else and that something else, I think, is going to be two videos a week

Yesterday, I was up early as usual--that’s one of the good side effects of my medication. It was raining, which was disappointing, because it rained all weekend, too. I've been trying to go to the beach for weeks now. So I made my coffee and ate some breakfast, and then I noticed that it wasn’t raining anymore. It was wet, and it was cloudy, but it wasn’t raining anymore, so I packed a bag, and I went.

I filmed Saturday's video at the beach. Not just the B-roll, but the A-roll, too, and when I got home, I put it all together. That part took me about an hour. I hadn’t planned to post the video on Wednesday, but when it was done I thought, why not?

I don’t know how long this energy or this attention will last, but I’ve learned to use it while it does.

So today is Thursday. I've been posting videos on Saturday. I don’t wanna break that routine, so I’m gonna come up with something else. Maybe I’ll make that video today. I’m going on another adventure; it’s a dentist appointment, but it’s across the river, which is always an excuse for a bit of exploring.

I've been thinking a lot about why videos right now. Why not just keep making zines or write more essays? The only thing I can think is that I'm burnt out on words. I hope it's not forever, but right now, videos feel doable.

So I'm gonna do.

Whether it's zines, or sourdough bread, or videos, I'm gonna do.
