---
layout: post
date: 2012-05-02
---

I'm working at 8 tomorrow, so I really should go to sleep early tonight. Let's see if I do. Again, I've put off writing my 750 words until the last minute. I often do it in the last hour, instead of first thing when I wake up. That's the whole point, right? It's called Morning Pages. In the morning, your mind is new and open and not tired. I think that's the big one. So, tomorrow, even though I have to get up earlier, I'm promising myself that I will write first, before I check email, before I check Twitter, before I check Tumblr. I will write. 

Then I will try to write first thing Friday morning, although I'm seeing THE AVENGERS tomorrow night, so who knows? I can't believe it's already here. I really don't know how early I should go to line up. I think maybe 11? I don't mind sitting around for an hour. Also, I'm not exactly sure where the theatre is, only that it's in the Park Lane Mall. Is it in the mall or is there an outside entrance? I might have to look that up. Actually, I was thinking that tomorrow afternoon, I would walk out that way on my way home. I could wander around the mall in the afternoon and check it out. Then I'll know exactly where to go. I could also maybe ask about how early people are lining up. Wouldn't it be hilarious if there were already people waiting? I really hope at least one person shows up in costume. I think that's a good bet. 

I'm hoping I'm not working Friday. I will if they offer, but I'd really love to be able to come home, after 2am, then get online and talk about the movie. Even better reason to write first thing tomorrow morning: so I don't forget and get stuck at the movie and kill the monthly challenge before it barely gets started. I want to go to sleep, but I don't feel like I'm there yet. 

I might watch the H50/NCIS:LA crossover. I don't know how good it's going to be without Alex. I get why they're doing it, to cover up his absence, but the whole point about bringing to two bromances together is to see them bromance together. But it's going to be Danno without his Steve. That's just sad. Like, just let them live together already! I don't understand it. They already share a car, and Gracie loves Steve. I want their weekends with the kid and pancakes and swimming and then when Gracie's a teenager. How awesome would Danno and Steve be when her date comes to pick her up at the house? But America doesn't want that. 

Granted, I don't really know what I want. I keep starting books and not finishing them. I keep opening stories in tabs and not reading them. I'm in a weird place with reading right now. Actually, I'm in a weird place with writing now, too. I am less than two hundred words away from 49k in this novel. So let's get there tonight. 
