---
layout: post
date: 2012-11-14
---

10 questions about your work in progress

What is the working title of your book?  
Human Events, from the first line of the United States Declaration of Independence. 

Where did the idea come from for the book?  
I thought if I could write a thousand word scene for every 50 states, I could trick myself into writing a novel. 

What genre does your book fall under?  
It's a love story, but it's not a romance novel. 

Which actors would you choose to play your characters in a movie rendition?  
I usually visual references a lot to help me write. I made a blog for the novel for that exact reason. The boy, Sam, is Andrew Garfield. The girl, Martie, is Rachel Bilson. The senator is Rob Lowe. 

What is the one-sentence synopsis of your book?  
Sam works for the senator; Martie works for magazines. Between the convention and the election, they try not to fall in love where the cameras can see. 

Will your book be self-published or represented by an agency?  
I hope to get it revised and sent out to agents in the new year. 

How long did it take you to write the first draft of your manuscript?  
Technically, a year. But there were a lot of months in the middle there where I hated writing and didn't want to look at it. 

What other books would you compare this story to within your genre?  
Don't we all write our books because we don't see what we want to read out there already? I honestly read more non-fiction than novels. 

Who or what inspired you to write this book?  
Shana put this idea in my head back during Obama's first campaign, when she posted a photo and connected it to Sam Seaborn. We loved The West Wing, but it really started after I read a book about Robert Kennedy's 68 day campaign, the Harvey Milk bio, Mayor of Castro Street, and rewatched The War Room. 

What else about your book might pique the reader’s interest?  
I told you about Andrew Garfield, right?
